---
title: 1117. Building H2O
id: id1117
author: Tian Jun
date: 2020-10-31
difficulty: Medium
categories: 
link: <https://leetcode.com/problems/building-h2o/description/>
---

There are two kinds of threads, `oxygen` and `hydrogen`. Your goal is to group
these threads to form water molecules. There is a barrier where each thread
has to wait until a complete molecule can be formed. Hydrogen and oxygen
threads will be given `releaseHydrogen` and `releaseOxygen` methods
respectively, which will allow them to pass the barrier. These threads should
pass the barrier in groups of three, and they must be able to immediately bond
with each other to form a water molecule. You must guarantee that all the
threads from one molecule bond _before_ any other threads from the next
molecule do.

In other words:

  * If an oxygen thread arrives at the barrier when no hydrogen threads are present, it has to wait for two hydrogen threads.
  * If a hydrogen thread arrives at the barrier when no other threads are present, it has to wait for an oxygen thread and another hydrogen thread.

We don't have to worry about matching the threads up explicitly; that is, the
threads do not necessarily know which other threads they are paired up with.
The key is just that threads pass the barrier in complete sets; thus, if we
examine the sequence of threads that bond and divide them into groups of
three, each group should contain one oxygen and two hydrogen threads.

Write synchronization code for oxygen and hydrogen molecules that enforces
these constraints.



**Example 1:**
            
	Input: "HOH"    
	Output: "HHO"    
	Explanation: "HOH" and "OHH" are also valid answers.    

**Example 2:**
            
	Input: "OOHHHH"    
	Output: "HHOHHO"    
	Explanation: "HOHHHO", "OHHHHO", "HHOHOH", "HOHHOH", "OHHHOH", "HHOOHH", "HOHOHH" and "OHHOHH" are also valid answers.    



**Constraints:**

  * Total length of input string will be 3 _n_ , where 1 ≤  _n_  ≤ 20.
  * Total number of `H` will be 2 _n_  in the input string.
  * Total number of `O` will be _n_  in the input string.


**Code:**
