---
title: 1333. Filter Restaurants by Vegan-Friendly, Price and Distance
id: id1333
author: Tian Jun
date: 2020-10-31
difficulty: Medium
categories: Array, Sort
link: <https://leetcode.com/problems/filter-restaurants-by-vegan-friendly-price-and-distance/description/>
---

Given the array `restaurants` where  `restaurants[i] = [idi, ratingi,
veganFriendlyi, pricei, distancei]`. You have to filter the restaurants using
three filters.

The `veganFriendly` filter will be either _true_ (meaning you should only
include restaurants with `veganFriendlyi` set to true) or _false_  (meaning
you can include any restaurant). In addition, you have the filters `maxPrice`
and `maxDistance` which are the maximum value for price and distance of
restaurants you should consider respectively.

Return the array of restaurant _**IDs**_ after filtering, ordered by
**rating** from highest to lowest. For restaurants with the same rating, order
them by _**id**_ from highest to lowest. For simplicity `veganFriendlyi` and
`veganFriendly` take value _1_ when it is _true_ , and _0_ when it is _false_.



**Example 1:**
            
	Input: restaurants = [[1,4,1,40,10],[2,8,0,50,5],[3,8,1,30,4],[4,10,0,10,3],[5,1,1,15,1]], veganFriendly = 1, maxPrice = 50, maxDistance = 10    
	Output: [3,1,5]     
	Explanation: The restaurants are:    Restaurant 1 [id=1, rating=4, veganFriendly=1, price=40, distance=10]    Restaurant 2 [id=2, rating=8, veganFriendly=0, price=50, distance=5]    Restaurant 3 [id=3, rating=8, veganFriendly=1, price=30, distance=4]    Restaurant 4 [id=4, rating=10, veganFriendly=0, price=10, distance=3]    Restaurant 5 [id=5, rating=1, veganFriendly=1, price=15, distance=1]     After filter restaurants with veganFriendly = 1, maxPrice = 50 and maxDistance = 10 we have restaurant 3, restaurant 1 and restaurant 5 (ordered by rating from highest to lowest).     

**Example 2:**
            
	Input: restaurants = [[1,4,1,40,10],[2,8,0,50,5],[3,8,1,30,4],[4,10,0,10,3],[5,1,1,15,1]], veganFriendly = 0, maxPrice = 50, maxDistance = 10    
	Output: [4,3,2,1,5]    
	Explanation: The restaurants are the same as in example 1, but in this case the filter veganFriendly = 0, therefore all restaurants are considered.    

**Example 3:**
            
	Input: restaurants = [[1,4,1,40,10],[2,8,0,50,5],[3,8,1,30,4],[4,10,0,10,3],[5,1,1,15,1]], veganFriendly = 0, maxPrice = 30, maxDistance = 3    
	Output: [4,5]    



**Constraints:**

  * `1 <= restaurants.length <= 10^4`
  * `restaurants[i].length == 5`
  * `1 <= idi, ratingi, pricei, distancei <= 10^5`
  * `1 <= maxPrice, maxDistance <= 10^5`
  * `veganFriendlyi` and `veganFriendly` are 0 or 1.
  * All `idi` are distinct.


**Code:**
