---
title: 1583. Count Unhappy Friends
id: id1583
author: Tian Jun
date: 2020-10-31
difficulty: Medium
categories: Array
link: <https://leetcode.com/problems/count-unhappy-friends/description/>
---

You are given a list of `preferences` for `n` friends, where `n` is always
**even**.

For each person `i`, `preferences[i]` contains a list of friends  **sorted**
in the **order of preference**. In other words, a friend earlier in the list
is more preferred than a friend later in the list. Friends in each list are
denoted by integers from `0` to `n-1`.

All the friends are divided into pairs. The pairings are given in a list
`pairs`, where `pairs[i] = [xi, yi]` denotes `xi` is paired with `yi` and `yi`
is paired with `xi`.

However, this pairing may cause some of the friends to be unhappy. A friend
`x` is unhappy if `x` is paired with `y` and there exists a friend `u` who is
paired with `v` but:

  * `x` prefers `u` over `y`, and
  * `u` prefers `x` over `v`.

Return _the number of unhappy friends_.



**Example 1:**
            
	Input: n = 4, preferences = [[1, 2, 3], [3, 2, 0], [3, 1, 0], [1, 2, 0]], pairs = [[0, 1], [2, 3]]    
	Output: 2    
	Explanation:    Friend 1 is unhappy because:    - 1 is paired with 0 but prefers 3 over 0, and    - 3 prefers 1 over 2.    Friend 3 is unhappy because:    - 3 is paired with 2 but prefers 1 over 2, and    - 1 prefers 3 over 0.    Friends 0 and 2 are happy.    

**Example 2:**
            
	Input: n = 2, preferences = [[1], [0]], pairs = [[1, 0]]    
	Output: 0    
	Explanation: Both friends 0 and 1 are happy.    

**Example 3:**
            
	Input: n = 4, preferences = [[1, 3, 2], [2, 3, 0], [1, 3, 0], [0, 2, 1]], pairs = [[1, 3], [0, 2]]    
	Output: 4    



**Constraints:**

  * `2 <= n <= 500`
  * `n` is even.
  * `preferences.length == n`
  * `preferences[i].length == n - 1`
  * `0 <= preferences[i][j] <= n - 1`
  * `preferences[i]` does not contain `i`.
  * All values in `preferences[i]` are unique.
  * `pairs.length == n/2`
  * `pairs[i].length == 2`
  * `xi != yi`
  * `0 <= xi, yi <= n - 1`
  * Each person is contained in **exactly one** pair.


**Code:**
