---
title: 1670. Design Front Middle Back Queue
id: id1670
author: Tian Jun
date: 2020-10-31
difficulty: Medium
categories: Linked List, Design, Dequeue
link: <https://leetcode.com/problems/design-front-middle-back-queue/description/>
---

Design a queue that supports `push` and `pop` operations in the front, middle,
and back.

Implement the `FrontMiddleBack` class:

  * `FrontMiddleBack()` Initializes the queue.
  * `void pushFront(int val)` Adds `val` to the **front** of the queue.
  * `void pushMiddle(int val)` Adds `val` to the **middle** of the queue.
  * `void pushBack(int val)` Adds `val` to the **back** of the queue.
  * `int popFront()` Removes the **front** element of the queue and returns it. If the queue is empty, return `-1`.
  * `int popMiddle()` Removes the **middle** element of the queue and returns it. If the queue is empty, return `-1`.
  * `int popBack()` Removes the **back** element of the queue and returns it. If the queue is empty, return `-1`.

**Notice** that when there are **two** middle position choices, the operation
is performed on the **frontmost** middle position choice. For example:

  * Pushing `6` into the middle of `[1, 2, 3, 4, 5]` results in `[1, 2, _6_ , 3, 4, 5]`.
  * Popping the middle from `[1, 2, _3_ , 4, 5, 6]` returns `3` and results in `[1, 2, 4, 5, 6]`.



**Example 1:**
            
	Input:    ["FrontMiddleBackQueue", "pushFront", "pushBack", "pushMiddle", "pushMiddle", "popFront", "popMiddle", "popMiddle", "popBack", "popFront"]    [[], [1], [2], [3], [4], [], [], [], [], []]    
	Output:    [null, null, null, null, null, 1, 3, 4, 2, -1]        
	Explanation:    FrontMiddleBackQueue q = new FrontMiddleBackQueue();    q.pushFront(1);   // [ _1_ ]    q.pushBack(2);    // [1, _2_ ]    q.pushMiddle(3);  // [1, _3_ , 2]    q.pushMiddle(4);  // [1, _4_ , 3, 2]    q.popFront();     // return 1 -> [4, 3, 2]    q.popMiddle();    // return 3 -> [4, 2]    q.popMiddle();    // return 4 -> [2]    q.popBack();      // return 2 -> []    q.popFront();     // return -1 -> [] (The queue is empty)    



**Constraints:**

  * `1 <= val <= 109`
  * At most `1000` calls will be made to `pushFront`, `pushMiddle`, `pushBack`, `popFront`, `popMiddle`, and `popBack`.


**Code:**
