---
title: 299. Bulls and Cows
id: id299
author: Tian Jun
date: 2020-10-31
difficulty: Medium
categories: Hash Table
link: <https://leetcode.com/problems/bulls-and-cows/description/>
---

You are playing the **[Bulls and
Cows](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bulls_and_Cows)** game with your friend.

You write down a secret number and ask your friend to guess what the number
is. When your friend makes a guess, you provide a hint with the following
info:

  * The number of "bulls", which are digits in the guess that are in the correct position.
  * The number of "cows", which are digits in the guess that are in your secret number but are located in the wrong position. Specifically, the non-bull digits in the guess that could be rearranged such that they become bulls.

Given the secret number `secret` and your friend's guess `guess`, return _the
hint for your friend 's guess_.

The hint should be formatted as `"xAyB"`, where `x` is the number of bulls and
`y` is the number of cows. Note that both `secret` and `guess` may contain
duplicate digits.



**Example 1:**
            
	Input: secret = "1807", guess = "7810"    
	Output: "1A3B"    
	Explanation: Bulls are connected with a '|' and cows are underlined:    "1807"      |    " _7_ 8 _10_ "

**Example 2:**
            
	Input: secret = "1123", guess = "0111"    
	Output: "1A1B"    
	Explanation: Bulls are connected with a '|' and cows are underlined:    "1123"        "1123"      |      or     |    "01 _1_ 1"        "011 _1_ "    Note that only one of the two unmatched 1s is counted as a cow since the non-bull digits can only be rearranged to allow one 1 to be a bull.    

**Example 3:**
            
	Input: secret = "1", guess = "0"    
	Output: "0A0B"    

**Example 4:**
            
	Input: secret = "1", guess = "1"    
	Output: "1A0B"    



**Constraints:**

  * `1 <= secret.length, guess.length <= 1000`
  * `secret.length == guess.length`
  * `secret` and `guess` consist of digits only.


**Code:**
