---
title: 8. String to Integer (atoi)
id: id8
author: Tian Jun
date: 2020-10-31
difficulty: Medium
categories: Math, String
link: <https://leetcode.com/problems/string-to-integer-atoi/description/>
---

Implement `atoi` which converts a string to an integer.

The function first discards as many whitespace characters as necessary until
the first non-whitespace character is found. Then, starting from this
character takes an optional initial plus or minus sign followed by as many
numerical digits as possible, and interprets them as a numerical value.

The string can contain additional characters after those that form the
integral number, which are ignored and have no effect on the behavior of this
function.

If the first sequence of non-whitespace characters in str is not a valid
integral number, or if no such sequence exists because either str is empty or
it contains only whitespace characters, no conversion is performed.

If no valid conversion could be performed, a zero value is returned.

**Note:**

  * Only the space character `' '` is considered a whitespace character.
  * Assume we are dealing with an environment that could only store integers within the 32-bit signed integer range: `[−231,  231 − 1]`. If the numerical value is out of the range of representable values, `231 − 1` or `−231` is returned.



**Example 1:**
            
	Input: str = "42"    
	Output: 42    

**Example 2:**
            
	Input: str = "   -42"    
	Output: -42    
	Explanation: The first non-whitespace character is '-', which is the minus sign. Then take as many numerical digits as possible, which gets 42.    

**Example 3:**
            
	Input: str = "4193 with words"    
	Output: 4193    
	Explanation: Conversion stops at digit '3' as the next character is not a numerical digit.    

**Example 4:**
            
	Input: str = "words and 987"    
	Output: 0    
	Explanation: The first non-whitespace character is 'w', which is not a numerical digit or a +/- sign. Therefore no valid conversion could be performed.    

**Example 5:**
            
	Input: str = "-91283472332"    
	Output: -2147483648    
	Explanation: The number "-91283472332" is out of the range of a 32-bit signed integer. Thefore INT_MIN (−231) is returned.    



**Constraints:**

  * `0 <= s.length <= 200`
  * `s` consists of English letters (lower-case and upper-case), digits, `' '`, `'+'`, `'-'` and `'.'`.


**Code:**
