---
title: 975. Odd Even Jump
id: id975
author: Tian Jun
date: 2020-10-31
difficulty: Hard
categories: Dynamic Programming, Stack, Ordered Map
link: <https://leetcode.com/problems/odd-even-jump/description/>
---

You are given an integer array `A`. From some starting index, you can make a
series of jumps. The (1st, 3rd, 5th, ...) jumps in the series are called
**odd-numbered jumps** , and the (2nd, 4th, 6th, ...) jumps in the series are
called **even-numbered jumps**. Note that the **jumps** are numbered, not the
indices.

You may jump forward from index `i` to index `j` (with `i < j`) in the
following way:

  * During **odd-numbered jumps** (i.e., jumps 1, 3, 5, ...), you jump to the index `j` such that `A[i] <= A[j]` and `A[j]` is the smallest possible value. If there are multiple such indices `j`, you can only jump to the **smallest** such index `j`.
  * During **even-numbered jumps** (i.e., jumps 2, 4, 6, ...), you jump to the index `j` such that `A[i] >= A[j]` and `A[j]` is the largest possible value. If there are multiple such indices `j`, you can only jump to the **smallest** such index `j`.
  * It may be the case that for some index `i`, there are no legal jumps.

A starting index is **good** if, starting from that index, you can reach the
end of the array (index `A.length - 1`) by jumping some number of times
(possibly 0 or more than once).

Return _the number of **good** starting indices_.



**Example 1:**
            
	Input: A = [10,13,12,14,15]    
	Output: 2    
	Explanation:     From starting index i = 0, we can make our 1st jump to i = 2 (since A[2] is the smallest among A[1], A[2], A[3],    A[4] that is greater or equal to A[0]), then we cannot jump any more.    From starting index i = 1 and i = 2, we can make our 1st jump to i = 3, then we cannot jump any more.    From starting index i = 3, we can make our 1st jump to i = 4, so we have reached the end.    From starting index i = 4, we have reached the end already.    In total, there are 2 different starting indices i = 3 and i = 4, where we can reach the end with some number of    jumps.    

**Example 2:**
            
	Input: A = [2,3,1,1,4]    
	Output: 3    
	Explanation:     From starting index i = 0, we make jumps to i = 1, i = 2, i = 3:        During our 1st jump (odd-numbered), we first jump to i = 1 because A[1] is the smallest value in [A[1], A[2],    A[3], A[4]] that is greater than or equal to A[0].        During our 2nd jump (even-numbered), we jump from i = 1 to i = 2 because A[2] is the largest value in [A[2], A[3],    A[4]] that is less than or equal to A[1]. A[3] is also the largest value, but 2 is a smaller index, so we can    only jump to i = 2 and not i = 3        During our 3rd jump (odd-numbered), we jump from i = 2 to i = 3 because A[3] is the smallest value in [A[3], A[4]]    that is greater than or equal to A[2].        We can't jump from i = 3 to i = 4, so the starting index i = 0 is not good.        In a similar manner, we can deduce that:    From starting index i = 1, we jump to i = 4, so we reach the end.    From starting index i = 2, we jump to i = 3, and then we can't jump anymore.    From starting index i = 3, we jump to i = 4, so we reach the end.    From starting index i = 4, we are already at the end.    In total, there are 3 different starting indices i = 1, i = 3, and i = 4, where we can reach the end with some    number of jumps.    

**Example 3:**
            
	Input: A = [5,1,3,4,2]    
	Output: 3    
	Explanation:     We can reach the end from starting indices 1, 2, and 4.    



**Constraints:**

  * `1 <= A.length <= 2 * 104`
  * `0 <= A[i] < 105`


**Code:**
